# LOOKING-INTO-DNA-SEQUENCE-OF-COVID-19-GENOME-1-2
## INTRODUCTION
<p align="justify">The year 2019 saw the emergence of a new coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2, which rapidly caused a global health disaster known as COVID-19. When an infected person coughs, sneezes, or speaks, respiratory droplets are the main way that the virus spreads from person to person. The convergence of data analysis and sophisticated algorithms in the modern healthcare environment has greatly increased the significance of illness prediction and management, with a focus on the COVID-19 worldwide pandemic. In order to support early diagnosis and treatment, it is now important to develop precise and fast predictive analysis  as the number of infected patients increases. Given the prevalence of the disease and the variety of its symptoms, advanced instruments that are capable of identifying complex patterns and risk factors. Consequently, this enables medical personnel to make better-informed conclusions, which may result in initial treatments and better patient outcomes.</p>
<p align="justify">In the pursuit of advancing our understanding and management of the COVID-19 pandemic, this study embarked on an important objective. The main goal of this study was to analyze the data of  COVID 19 disease by using the data set of genome sequence for analysis and information. The dataset includes a diverse set of genome sequences  allowing for a detailed examination of its genetic variations. The objective is to use the information obtained from the dataset analysis to support prevention healthcare initiatives.</p>

## OBJECTIVES
* <p align="justify">To analyze the Covid 19 disease based on the given dataset.</p>
* <p align="justify">Visualize the data using relevant graphs and charts in order to understand the correlations between various characteristics.</p>
* <p align="justify">Conduct a thorough statistical analysis of the SARS-CoV-2 dataset for a better understanding of the variable distribution and features.
* <p align="justify">Explore the developed program's practical applications in various healthcare environments.
